a rally against police violence turning
violent once again Riot police forced
hundreds of students from the University
of Amsterdam's campus after they had
occupied the main University Building
several protesters including University
staff had to receive first aid treatment
and at one point the riot police came
and they wanted to to move all the
people to the street uh and they started
pushing but apparently people weren't
walking fast enough so they uh so they
started using their batons uh and I was
trying to protect two smaller students
uh and yeah I got hit in the head and
and on the arm quite quite severely deer
was one of around 1,000 University
professors and lecturers who walked out
Monday morning to protest what they said
was excessive police violence last week
then police used a bulldozer and bons
against a student encampment the
Netherlands fides itself on a democratic
free country and we've seen that our
right to protest is under attack
we've been PE off we didn't want
violence they chose violence the student
council has called on the University
board to resign the rally which started
as a protest against police violence is
rapidly escalating with police once
again coming to the University campus
hundreds of University staff were
rallying this morning to demand the
right to protest and that's exactly what
the students are doing as
well they say they want to be able to
vend their anger about the genocide
happening in Gaza and show their
increasing frustration with the Dutch
government not doing anything to stop it
protesting is a fundamental right and
for genocide we are bound by
international law we are bound by a
genocide convention and the level of
impunity is um not it cannot be
explained and this Young Generation the
generation of our students um they they
will not go along with it and many of
the staff as well the university board
defends its decision to call police
saying protesters cause severe damage to
the building it estimates losses are as
high as 1 A5 million EUR students vow to
continue their protests until their
universities have cut ties with Israeli
universities they say their number will
only increase if police continue to use
violence step fast in Al jazer
Amsterdam make sure to subscribe to
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer